Original CMEP Specification (Partial)California Metering Exchange ProtocolVersion 1.20 - Update for EDI DASR compatibilityUnderlined text indicates changes from CMEP Version 1.1March 7, 2000PurposeThe California Metering Exchange Protocol is intended for use in transmitting gas andelectric utility metering, billing, and administrative information between companies.Communications between customers and Utility distribution companies (UDC), EnergyService Providers (ESP), Metering Agents (MA) and Billing Agents (BA) must besupported. This protocol has been developed to support the business activities needed toallow utility customers to chose among multiple Service Providers (SP) which may becommercially independent from their Utility Distribution Company (UDC). This directaccess process was mandated to be in operation on January 1, 1998. No alternativeprotocol was available for implementation and inter-company testing in 1997.Specific Business Objectives1. Meet the January 1, 1998 implementation deadline . It should be acknowledgedthat several parallel processes are in place and progressing to meet the samebusiness needs as this protocol. Among them are the utilities industry UtilitiesCommunications Architecture group, the group developing the ANSI standardDocument Communications Infrastructure (DCI) document types, and theCalifornia utility companies and SP coordination committee. None of thesealternatives will be ready in the required time frame.2. Provide a simple to implement, workable, and reliable protocol to supportbusiness communications between metering agencies, SPs, and billingagencies. This protocol must be easy to implement and use. It will be used onmultiple machine types and it will be implemented in multiple programminglanguages. It must solve immediate business needs without adding complexity. Itmust contain features that provide assurance that communications errors caneasily be detected.3. Provide an inexpensive to implement protocol that may comfortably beabandoned. Utility restructuring is occurring at a pace that is much beyond thecapabilities of standards bodies to respond. This protocol is intended for interimuse while standards bodies are producing an appropriate replacement.Note: Document Change History appears at end of document.Implementation OverviewThis protocol is a compromise between reality and what might be ideal. The set offeatures that make up a good communications protocol has continuously evolved.Protocols designed today are free flowing, flexible, and extensible. Modern programmingtools tend to support this new style of communications protocols. A well-known exampleof this new style protocol is the HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) commonly used inInternet communications.Though the California Metering Exchange Protocol is new, it is constrained by anecessity to be supportable with computer systems and programming languages that arefar from modern. However, simply finding a "lowest common denominator" set ofcommunications features is problematic. Older systems tend to rely on rigidly structured,fixed field length, fixed record length protocols. This rigidity tends to limit theadaptability of a protocol. Fixed length fields and records often embody significantwasted transmission bandwidth since individual fields must be sized to contain the largestpossible entry for them.The compromise chosen for the California Metering Exchange Protocol is to use fixedrecord formats with variable length fields. This approach provides relative ease inmapping communications data formats to traditional fixed format records while allowingsome of the communications bandwidth savings of the modern protocol style. It does notprovide all of the flexibility and adaptability inherent in the modern style.The California Metering Exchange Protocol data content consists of multiple lines ofASCII text, each terminated with ASCII Carriage Return and Line Feed characters. Onlya very small number of different line types are used. Each line begins with type name andtype version fields to allow correct interpretation of its contents. Individual fields on aline are separated with the ASCII Comma character. Fields are packed tightly, withleading and trailing blank space removed. Empty fields are carried as simply a singlecomma.The text lines that make up the California Metering Exchange Protocol are designed tosupport both block mode and continuous stream data transmission methods. Block modetransmission nominally consists of placing multiple text lines in a file or communicationsbuffer and trans mitting that file or buffer as a single unit. Continuous stream datatransmission simply transmits text lines, one after the other, with no identifiablebeginning or end to the sequence. Supporting both modes in the same protocol is onlyslightly more difficult than providing a robust version of either.Specific Protocol FeaturesThere is a simple set of features or rules embodied in the California Metering ExchangeProtocol:1. Data content is a sequence of ASCII text lines terminated with ASCII CarriageReturn and Line Feed characters.2. Each line is a complete record.3. No line shall exceed a total length of 2048 characters including end of lineCarriage Return and Line Feed. This limit is imposed to simplify and clarifyimplementation issues.4. Each record stands alone as an atomic entity. This is a context free protocol.5. Each record consists of a series of variable length fields; each delimited with theASCII Comma character.6. Field text that contains the ASCII Comma character is enclosed between ASCIIQuotation marks at the field boundaries. Make a feature because parsing this out is a hit on speed.7. No single field shall exceed a total length of 256 characters including anydelimiting characters. This limit is imposed to simplify and clarifyimplementation issues.8. Field contents are packed. Leading and trailing white space is removed whenrecords are sent and ignored when received. If leading or trailing white spaceitself is significant, the field must be enclosed between ASCII Quotation marks atthe field boundaries.9. Empty or unused fields are indicated with a single ASCII Comma character.10. Each record begins with a consistent set of fields, called a header, to facilitateidentification and interpretation.11. Each record ends with an optional CRC field which lies between the last suppliedcomma in the record and the terminating Carriage Return and Line Feedcharacters. The CRC type is CRC-16. When supplied, this field is encoded as ahexadecimal integer totaling 5 characters in length, including the leading ASCII'H' character. When not supplied, the CRC field is left empty.12. Records may be truncated at any field after the header. Those fields not suppliedare assumed to be empty. When records are truncated, the CRC field is stillassumed to lie between the last actually supplied comma and the terminatingCarriage Return, Line Feed characters.13. Field text may contain one of the following data types: Numeric Integer, NumericFloating-Point, a calendar Date, Time, a Date/Time, a Time Interval, ArbitraryText, or a predefined Protocol Text entry.14. Numeric values are encoded as ASCII text. Two kinds of numeric values areprovided: Integer and Floating-Point. Integer values are encoded in decimal withoptional leading Plus (+) or Minus (-) signs or in hexadecimal. Hexadecimalvalues are indicated by a leading ASCII character 'H'. Floating Point values maybe encoded as simple integers, with trailing decimal point and one or moredecimal digits, or scientific notation of the form: [+][-]9.9E[+][-]9 where "[+][-]"means an optional plus or minus sign, "9" means one or more decimal digits, and"E" means one of the following characters 'E', 'e', 'D', or 'd'. Floating point values,however, must be limited to a specific range. Though they may be encoded inscientific notation, floating point numbers will be converted to "+/-9999999999.99999" form by PG&E for internal use. Numeric fields may notexceed 16 characters in length. Empty numeric fields are interpreted as the valuezero.15. Time and Date values are encoded as ASCII text. Date only fields are encoded as"CCYYMMDD". Time fields are encoded as "HHMM". Date/Time fields areencoded as "CCYYMMDDHHMM". Allowed values "CCYYMMDD0000"through "CCYYMMDD2359". Empty Date and Date/Time fields are undefinedexcept where explicitly handled.16. Time Interval values are encoded as ASCII text. They are encoded"MMDDHHMM". Empty Time Interval fields are interpreted as zero intervals.Interval values of less than an hour must repeat on the hour. Interval values of lessthan a day must repeat at midnight.17. Arbitrary Text fields contain free- form text such as customer name and addressinformation. Empty text fields are interpreted as blank.18. Protocol Text fields contain values that are predefined and have a limited set ofpossible values. They are used as data type indicators and as qualifiers or featureflags. Predefined text values are chosen so as to make their meanings easilyinferred by someone familiar with the technology they describe. Empty text fieldsare interpreted as blank. Protocol Text fields may not exceed 12 characters inlength, not counting the delimiting comma. This limit is imposed to simplify andclarify implementation issues.Record TypesThere are six categories of inter-company transactions that must be supported for directaccess:1. End Use Customer Administration.2. Metering Service.3. Billing Service.4. Distribution Loss Factors.5. Equipment Configuration.6. Record Reject for errors.Separating communications into these categories simplifies the job of identifyingcommunications purpose and content. Record types and their use is discussed in detailbelow.Header FieldsAll records in the California Metering Exchange Protocol begin with a consistent set offields. They are the Record Type and Record Version fields. The supported Record Typesare:1. "MEPAD01" - Administrative Data Type 1 - DASR2. "MEPAD02" - Administrative Data Type 2 - Credit Data3. "MEPMD01" - Metering Data Type 1 - Interval Data4. "MEPMD02" - Metering Data Type 2 - TOU Data5. "MEPBD01" - Billing Data Type 1 - Billed Dollars6. "MEPBD02" - Billing Data Type 2 - Interval Pricing Plan7. "MEPBD03" - Billing Data Type 3 - TOU Pricing Plan8. "MEPLF01" - Distribution Loss Factors - Electric9. "MEPEC01" - Equipment Configuration Type 110. "MEPRR01" - Record Reject Type 1The Record Version field is a Date field, as described above in "Specific ProtocolFeatures," that contains the date that this specific record format was defined. This versionnumber changes only when interpreting as some other version would produce invalidresults.Time ValuesTime is not a trivial concern. Many problems occur if time and date are not handledproperly. Customers may be billed incorrectly. Usage statistics may be invalidated. Thechanges to and from daylight savings time confuse billing algorithms. Companies will bedealing with customers in multiple time zones. A single, standard approach to handlingtime and date is necessary.The California Metering Exchange Protocol records and transmits all information usingthe international standard, Universal Coordinated Time (UTC). UTC, for the purposes ofthis document, is simply Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) without daylight savings timecorrection. UTC is an internationally recognized time representation and is actually usedinternally in nearly all of our modern computer systems, including desktop PCs.Meter readings, administrative operations, and billing transactions are all reported inUTC. Some account billing is based upon time-of-day which is normally defined in termsof local time. For those accounts, conversion from UTC to local time must be performed.Each meter's configuration information includes time zone descriptions for both standardand daylight savings time. Time values must be corrected to local time for billingpurposes by adding the appropriate time zone value to the UTC value, taking into accountcrossing day and month boundaries.The California Metering Exchange Protocol time calculations may appear complex andobscure to people who are unfamiliar with the internal operation of modern computersystems. The algorithms to perform these operations are both simple and well known.Converting time values from UTC to local time and back is so common that most peopletake these operations for granted, not realizing that it is even taking place. This protocolsimply utilizes UTC for its intended purpose.Protocol TextProtocol Text values are predefined text strings. Their use allows constant and reliableparameter identification. Their use also provides boundaries to the range of values thatmay be used in fields. Most Protocol Text values are defined in the description of thefields to which they apply. One particular kind of Protocol Text value is common tomultiple fields is listed here for convenience:UNITS"KWHREG" - Meter dial or register readings for printing on monthly bill."KVAHREG" - Meter dial or register readings for printing on monthly bill."KVARHREG" - Meter dial or register readings for printing on monthly bill."GASREG" - Meter dial or register readings for printing on monthly bill."PULSE" - Direct meter pulse readings."KW" - Kilowatt demand, usually expressed as peak value in time interval."KVA" - Kilovolt-ampere demand, usually expressed as peak value in timeinterval."KVAR" - Kilovolt-Ampere-Reactive demand, usually expressed as peak valuein time interval. Values may be positive or negative depending upon power factor.Values are positive for VARs produced by customer or negative for VARsconsumed by customer. Induction motors consume watts and VARs. A condenserbank produces VARs. An over-excited generator produces watts and VARs. Anunder-excited generator produces watts and consumes VARs."KWH" - Kilowatt hours used."KVAH" - Kilovolt-ampere hours."KVARH" - Kilovolt-Ampere-Reactive hours. Values may be positive ornegative depending upon power factor. See KVAR above for further notes."GKW" - Kilowatt generation, received from customer, usually expressed aspeak value in time interval. Used when customer is generating power."GKVA" - Kilovolt-Ampere generation received from customer, usuallyexpressed as peak value in time interval. Used when customer is generatingpower."GKVAR" - Kilovolt-Ampere Reactive generation received from customer,usually expressed as peak value in time interval. Used when customer isgenerating power. Values may be positive or negative depending upon powerfactor. See KVAR above for further notes."GKWH" - Kilowatt hours received from customer. Used when customer isgenerating power."GKVAH" - Kilovolt-Ampere hours received from customer. Used whencustomer is generating power."GKVARH" - Kilovolt-Ampere Reactive hours received from customer. Usedwhen customer is generating power. Values may be positive or negativedepending upon power factor. See KVAR above for further notes."VOLTS" - Volts."BTU" - British Thermal Units."THERM" - Therms."GAL" - Gallons."CF" - Cubic Feet."CCF" - Hundreds of Cubic Feet."MCF" - Thousands of Cubic Feet."ACFT" - Acre-Feet."LBS" - Pounds."$" - US Dollars.Metering Service Data RecordsCalifornia Metering Exchange Protocol metering communications occur to enablecustomer energy use and service billing. Most information transmitted in MeteringService Data records consists of meter reading and energy use data about specificcustomers.Metering Service Data Records are typically generated by the MA and supplied to theUDC and ESP. In the case of shut-off or turn-on, the UDC may be responsible forgenerating appropriate MEPMD01 records with final and initial meter readings. In thecase of a changeout, the party changing out the meter may be responsible for providingthe final and initial meter readings to the MA.Metering Service Data Record transmissions are not acknowledged on a record-by-recordbasis. Records that contain data that is deemed incorrect by a receiving party may berejected and returned to the sender.Metering Values vs. Date/Time IntervalsThe values transmitted in Metering Service Data Records are typically an accumulationof some quantity, such as kilowatt-hours, over an interval of time. Each value has anassociated Date/Time field as a timestamp. That timestamp could conceivably identifythe beginning or ending time of the interval. Each of these approaches has advantagesand disadvantages. The California Metering Exchange Protocol uses end-of-intervalDate/Time timestamps.Whether beginning or end of interval timestamps are used, a problem arises thatcomplicates totaling commodity usage on a day by day basis. Either the first or lastreading for a day will be listed with the previous or next day's date. The use of end-ofintervaltimestamps does not complicate this problem. Totaling algorithms must deal withthe fact that the timestamp for the last interval of the day will be for the beginning of thefirst interval of the next day.One potential solution to the end-of- interval totaling problem is to simply offset themidnight reading to 23:59. This approach is inadequate simply because billing days oftendo not begin and end at midnight. Some other time of the day, such as 0700 local time isused. Offsetting all timestamps by one minute might minimize this one minor totalingproblem but would introduce a systemic error in data representation. If such measures aredesirable, they should be applied to the data after it is transmitted via California MeteringExchange Protocol.Time-Of-Use MeteringThere are two broad categories of metering data intervals employed for differentaccounts. The first is pure interval values, such as those accounts that are billed on totalenergy use on an hourly or monthly basis. The second is what is traditionally known asTime-Of-Use where energy use is broken into as many as five or more components.These components are normally labeled "On-Peak", "Off-Peak", and so on. (PG&Etypically defines three components: "On-Peak", "Part-Peak", and "Off-Peak"). Time-Of-Use billing has typically been applied to monthly totals of individual use components butday-by-day billing is possible.Time-Of-Use totaling is usually complicated by the treating of weekdays, weekends andholidays differently when assigning usage to On-Peak, Off-Peak, or other categories.Often, all day Sunday is treated as an Off-Peak period. Time-Of-Use metering totals musttherefore be identified by their component names and the overall time interval for whichthey are accumulated. Time-Of-Use and Interval data formats differ sufficiently to justifysupporting them with two separate record types. Interval data is supported by"MEPMD01" - Metering Data Type 1 records and Time-Of-Use with "MEPMD02" -Metering Data Type 2 records.Beginning and End of Month Meter ReadsNominally, data transmissions of cumulative meter reads, such as monthly meter reads,should include both beginning of period and end of period date and usage values. Thisallows receiving entities to verify that no reading overlaps or gaps have occurred."MEPMD01" - Metering Data Type 1 - Interval DataInterval Data is data that represents regular interval accumulation of energy usageinformation, such as 15- minute, hourly, daily, or monthly accumulation or demand. Mostenergy metering information may be represented using this record. The exception istraditional Time-Of-Use (TOU) usage accumulation that has complex irregular intervaldefinition. TOU data may be represented using "MEPMD02" record type."MEPMD01" represents a format to facilitate the transfer of metering data. It is notintended to define how a utility customer's energy use is administered or billed."MEPMD01" supports single meter socket values. Utility customers with more than onemeter per account must be explicitly handled. Billing for a single utility customer thatinvolves the aggregation of metering values may be done by some negotiated scheme bythe UDC acting as a metering agent. It could also be handled by using "MEPMD01"records to transfer metering values separately, as separate metering accounts, to becombined later in that customer's billing service. Both methods are supportable by"MEPMD01".The sequence of fields in this record is:1. Record Type: Protocol Text: Always "MEPMD01"2. Record Version: Date ("CCYYMMDD"): Currently "19970819"3. Sender ID: Arbitrary Text: Identity of the entity sending this record. It willtypically be a Dun and Bradstreet number. Currently, only the first 16 charactersof this field will be recognized by PG&E.4. Sender customer ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the senders identification referencefor the account to which this record applies. Currently, only the first 12 charactersof this field will be recognized by PG&E.5. Receiver ID: Arbitrary Text: Identity of the intended recipient entity of thisrecord. It will typically be a Dun and Bradstreet number. Currently, only the first16 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.6. Receiver customer ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the receiving entitiesidentification reference for the account to which this record applies. Currently,only the first 12 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.7. Time stamp: Date/Time ("CCYYMMDDHHMM"): Date and Time that thisrecord was created.8. Meter ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the placard identifier or faceplate serial numberto physically identify a meter. This is usually some arbitrary combination ofletters and numbers that make up a meter manufacturer's serial number. It may,however, be some other easily found identifying label on the metering equipment.This field may optionally be used as a channel identifier for situations where thatinformation is useful. Currently, only the first 12 characters of this entry will berecognized by PG&E.9. Purpose: Protocol Text: Indicates the reason for this data transmission. Definedvalues are:o "OK" - Normal transmission.o "RESEND" - Retransmission of previously sent data.o "SUMMARY" - Summary of SP totaled data. Summary data usuallyconsists of values calculated from metering data such as monthly totalscalculated from 15 minute readings. This data is often supplied on aregular basis (such as for quarterly reports).o "HISTORY" - Archival account data. Archival data is retrieved fromlong term storage and may be of lesser time resolution than its originalcollection period. This data of generally supplied once per request foranalysis purposes.o "PROFILE" - Account usage profile data.o "TEMPLATE" - Account usage template data.o "REJECT" - Data is rejected and is being returned to sender.10. Commodity: Protocol Text: Describes what commodity type this account is for.Defined values are:o "E" - Electricity.o "G" - Gas.o "W" - Water.o "S" - Steam.11. Units: Protocol Text: Describes the units of the data values. Examples of valuesare: "KWHREG", "KWH", and "THERM". A complete list of abbreviations issupplied in the Protocol Text Units listing. . Data quality flags are used to indicatethe raw, estimated, valid, etc. status of values transmitted.12. Calculation Constant: Numeric Floating-Point: Defines an optional value whichis used as a multiplier to convert data values to engineering units. Typically thisparameter is used with "PULSE" data to allow calculation of equivalent "KWH"and "THERM" values.13. Interval: Time Interval ("MMDDHHMM"): Describes the time interval betweenreadings. Metering data is transmitted as Date/Time and value pairs. In manycases, however, the time intervals for the data values is so regular that Date/Timeinformation past the first reading is essentially redundant. This field may be usedto minimize this redundancy problem. If a Date/Time field, after the first readingin a line, is empty, it is calculated by adding this interval to the Date/Time of theprevious value. This field is ignored if no empty Date/Time fields are encounteredin the record. This field is optional if Date/Time fields are supplied for all values.14. Count: Numeric Integer: Indicates the number of Date/Time, flag, and value setsto follow. A maximum of 48 sets is allowed per record.15. Data: Date/Time ("CCYYMMDDHHMM"), Protocol Text, and Numeric Floating-Point triplet: Each data entry is a set of three fields. The number of data entry setsis described in the "Count" field above. When an "Interval" field is supplied,Date/Time fields after the first may left empty to be calculated when the record isread. An empty Date/Time field is calculated by adding the time intervaldescribed in the "Interval" field to the supplied or calculated Date/Time value ofthe previous entry pair in this record. The Protocol Text field is an optional fieldused as a data quality flag. Defined values are:o (empty) - An empty flag field indicates that the value is OK and validated.o "E" - Value is estimated. Estimation method is described in account's"MEPAD01" record.o "A" - Value is an adjustment. Adjustments are made to correct meteringinconsistencies or errors.o "N" - Value is empty. No value is being sent for this interval. May be sentas the first entry for a new account.o "R" - Value is raw. No validation has been performed on value."MEPMD02" - Metering Data Type 2 - TOU DataThe sequence of fields in this record is:1. Record Type: Protocol Text: Always "MEPMD02"2. Record Version: Date ("CCYYMMDD"): Currently "19970819"3. Sender ID: Arbitrary Text: Identity of the entity sending this record. It willtypically be a Dun and Bradstreet number. Currently, only the first 16 charactersof this field will be recognized by PG&E.4. Sender customer ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the senders identification referencefor the account to which this record applies. Currently, only the first 12 charactersof this field will be recognized by PG&E.5. Receiver ID: Arbitrary Text: Identity of the intended recipient entity of thisrecord. It will typically be a Dun and Bradstreet number. Currently, only the first16 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.6. Receiver customer ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the receiving entitiesidentification reference for the account to which this record applies. Currently,only the first 12 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.7. Time stamp: Date/Time ("CCYYMMDDHHMM"): Date and Time that thisrecord was created.8. Meter ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the placard identifier or faceplate serial numberto physically identify a meter. This is usually some arbitrary combination ofletters and numbers that make up a meter manufacturer's serial number. It may,however, be some other easily found identifying label on the metering equipment.This field may optionally be used as a channel identifier for situations where thatinformation is useful. Currently, only the first 12 characters of this entry will berecognized by PG&E.9. Purpose: Protocol Text: Indicates the reason for this data transmission. Definedvalues are:o "OK" - Normal transmission.o "RESEND" - Retransmission of previously sent data.o "SUMMARY" - Summary of SP totaled data. Summary data usuallyconsists of values calculated from metering data such as monthly totalscalculated from daily readings. This data is often supplied on a regularbasis (such as for quarterly reports).o "HISTORY" - Archival account data. Archival data is retrieved fromlong term storage and may be of lesser time resolution than its originalcollection period. This data of generally supplied once per request foranalysis purposes.o "PROFILE" - Account usage profile data.o "TEMPLATE" - Account usage template data.o "REJECT" - Data is rejected and is being returned to sender.10. Commodity: Protocol Text: Describes what commodity type this account is for.Defined values are:o "E" - Electricity.o "G" - Gas.o "W" - Water.o "S" - Steam.11. Units: Protocol Text: Describes the units of the data values. Examples of valuesare: "KWHREG", "KWH", and "THERM". A complete list of abbreviations issupplied in the Protocol Text Units listing. Where multiple unit types and seasonsare transmitted, separate MEPMD02 records are sent for each. Data quality flagsare used to indicate the raw, estimated, valid, etc. status of values transmitted.12. Season identifier: Protocol Text: This identifies the season for which the valuesapply. Defined values are: "S" - Summer. "W" - Winter. This field may be leftblank for accounts that do not differentiate between seasons. If this field is blank,it will be interpreted as indicating winter for those accounts that do. A record maycontain data for one season only. Data for different seasons must be sent inseparate records.13. Calculation Constant: Numeric Floating-Point: Defines an optional value whichis used as a multiplier to convert data values to engineering units. Typically thisparameter is used with "PULSE" data to allow calculation of equivalent "KWH"and "THERM" values.14. Data Start Time: Date/Time ("CCYYMMDDHHMM"): Describes date and timethat the data interval reported in this record began.15. Data Timestamp: Date/Time ("CCYYMMDDHHMM"): Describes date and timethat ends the interval reported in this record.16. Count: Numeric Integer: Indicates the number of label- flag-value sets to follow.A maximum of 6 sets is allowed per record.17. Data: Protocol Text, Protocol Text, and Numeric Floating-Point triplet: Eachdata entry is a set of three fields. A maximum of 6 sets is allowed per record.Each set consists of a Protocol Text Time-Of-Use component label field, aProtocol Text data quality flag, and a Numeric Floating-Point value. The numberof data entry sets is described in the "Count" field above. Defined values for thequality flag field are described in the "MEPMD01" record above. (An emptyindicates that the value is OK.) Defined values for the label field are:o "ON-PEAK"o "OFF-PEAK"o "PART-PEAK"o "PEAK-2"o "PEAK-3"o "PEAK-4"o "TOTAL"Equipment Configuration RecordsCalifornia Metering Exchange Protocol equipment configuration communications occurto enable metering equipment descriptions to be transferred between companies. MA(meter owners, installers, and maintainers) supplies this information to UDC for disasterrecovery purposes. The UDC is typically the first response agency during major servicedisruptions. Equipment Configuration data is normally stored by UDC for recall by fieldrepair crews to facilitate restoration service to UDC customers."MEPEC01" - Equipment Configuration Data Type 1The sequence of fields in this record is:1. Record Type: Protocol Text: Always "MEPEC01"2. Record Version: Date ("CCYYMMDD"): Currently "19980618"3. Sender ID: Arbitrary Text: Identity of the entity sending this record. It willtypically be a Dun and Bradstreet number. Currently, only the first 16 charactersof this field will be recognized by PG&E.4. Sender customer ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the senders identification referencefor the account to which this record applies. Currently, only the first 12 charactersof this field will be recognized by PG&E.5. Receiver ID: Arbitrary Text: Identity of the intended recipient entity of thisrecord. It will typically be a Dun and Bradstreet number. Currently, only the first16 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.6. Receiver customer ID: Arbitrary Text: This is the receiving entitiesidentification reference for the account to which this record applies. Currently,only the first 12 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.7. Time stamp: Date/Time ("CCYYMMDDHHMM"): Date and Time that thisrecord was created.8. Record ID: Arbitrary Text: This is an optional field that may be supplied in arequest record. The contents of this field will be returned unchanged in thecorresponding response record. The length of this text shall not exceed 16characters.9. Operation Type: Protocol Text: What kind of operation triggered this record tobe transmitted. Defined values are:o "UPDATE" - This is notice of a change in configuration.o "UPDATE-ACK" - Acknowledge configuration change.o "UPDATE-NAK" - Reject configuration change.o "REMOVE" - This is notice of deletion of a configuration item.o "REMOVE-ACK" - Acknowledge deletion.o "REMOVE-NAK" - Reject deletion.o "CFG-REQ" - (SP to UDC) Request configuration.o "CFG" - This is current configuration, no change has occurred.o "CFG-NAK" - Reject a configuration data request.10. Purpose: Protocol Text: Indicates the reason for this data transmission. Definedvalues are:o "OK" - Normal transmission.o "RESEND" - Retransmission of previously sent data.o "CORRECT" - Correction to previously sent data.11. Comment: Arbitrary Text: An optional field used to supply additionalinformation about the indicated operation. This field is typically used in "NAK"transmissions to indicate the reason for rejecting a request. The length of this textshall not exceed 64 characters.12. Commodity: Protocol Text: Describes what commodity type this account is for.Defined values are:o "E" - Electricity.o "G" - Gas.o "W" - Water.o "S" - Steam.13. Activity: Protocol Text: Describes what kind of activity caused this record to besent. Defined values are:o (empty) - Automatic transmission.o "CHANGE" - Equipment/Meter Change.o "SET" - Meter Set.o "REMOVE" - Equipment/Meter Removed.o "MAINT" - Equipment/Meter Maintenance.14. Equipment Type: Protocol Text: (Generated by MA) What kind of equipmentthis record describes. Defined values are:o "METER" - A meter. When meter and recorder functions are combinedin one unit, both "METER" and "RECORDER" equipment type recordsare supplied for that combined unit.o "RECORDER" - Meter data recorder.o "PT" - A metering potential transformer.o "CT" - A metering current transformer.15. Manufacturer: Arbitrary Text: (Generated by MA) Manufacturer's name.Currently, only the first 22 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.16. Model: Arbitrary Text: (Generated by MA) This device's model name or number.Currently, only the first 22 characters of this field will be recognized by PG&E.17. Serial number: Arbitrary Text: (Generated by MA) This device's manufacturerserial number. Currently, only the first 22 characters of this field will berecognized by PG&E.18. Identifier: Arbitrary Text: (Generated by MA) An optional identifier to aid visualidentification of this device. Currently, only the first 22 characters of this fieldwill be recognized by PG&E.19. Date of purchase: Date ("CCYYMMDD"): (Generated by MA) The date thisdevice was purchased. Month and day values may be estimated.20. Date of installation: Date ("CCYYMMDD"): (Generated by SP) The date thisdevice was installed.21. Owner: Arbitrary Text: (Generated by SP) Name of entity that owns this device.This field may contain the value "CUSTOMER" to indicate customer ownershipelse an SP identifier should be used. Currently, only the first 16 characters of thisfield will be recognized by PG&E.22. Parameter count: Numeric Integer: Indicates the number of Parameter pairs tofollow. A maximum of 16 sets is allowed per record.23. Parameters: Protocol Text and Arbitrary Text pair: Each parameter entry is a setof two fields. The number of parameter sets is described in the "Parameter Count"field above. The Protocol Text field of each pair contains an identifier for the kindof parameter the following Arbitrary Text describes. The Arbitrary Text field ofeach pair contains descriptive text. The length of this Arbitrary Text field shall notexceed 30 characters. There are four groups of parameters, one for Meters, one forrecorders, one for transformers, and one general purpose group.1. Defined Protocol Text values for METERs are:"DEMAND-TYPE" - What quantity this meter measures. (i.e.KWH, KVARH, CF, etc., When multiple DEMAND-TYPEs aremeasured on a single meter, those types are all listed with ASCIIspace characters (20 Hexadecimal) as separators)"CLASS-CODE" - Meter Class Code."FORM" - Meter Form type."VOLTS" - Voltage rating."AMPS" - Current rating in AMPS."SVC-VOLTS" - Service Voltage."PHASE" - Meter Phase."WIRES" - The number of wires."DELTA-WYE" - Delta/Wye configuration."KYZ-OUTPUT" - Pulse R/I."KH" - Meter Kh constant."KE" - Meter Ke constant."PPDR" - Pulses per disk revolution."DIAL-K" - Dial K (Register) constant."BILLING-K" - Billing Constant."REG-RATIO" - Register Ratio."N-DIALS" - Number of dials."INT-ID" - Internal Meter ID."P-MULT" - Pulse Multiplier."RKVA-ID" - RKVA Meter Identifier."REC-ID" - Recorder Identifier.2. Defined Protocol Text values for RECORDERs are:"COMM-TYPE" - What kind of communications path is used.Examples are "Dialup", "Internet", and "ATT-PCS"."PROTOCOL" - What communications protocol is used.Examples are "MFGR" (manufacturers proprietary protocol),"TCP/IP", and "C12.XX"."FORMAT" - Data format if different from or at higher level thancommunications protocol."ADDRESS" - Communications network address or dialup circuitnumber.3. Defined Protocol Text values for transformers are:"RATIO" - Transformer ratio. Expressed as ratio to one."PRIMARY" - Primary Rating in volts or amps."INSULATION" - Insulation voltage class."LOCATION" - Location code for this device. This will typicallybe "INDOORS" or "OUTDOORS""HI-LO" - High side, Low side designator. Example values are"HIGH" and "LOW"."SINGLE-DUAL" - Single or dual configuration designator.Example values are "SINGLE" and "DUAL".4. General Use Protocol Text values are:"OTHER" - Other unspecified equipment parameter."NOTE" - General text note.